---
layout: post
title: TWO BOOKS AND AN ARTICLE
---

In our first session for Computational Arts-based Research and Theory we have to bring in a book that interested us. I decided to bring in two, both being very different but key to my study. We also had to read an article I will talk about and talk about our personal goals of future research and practice.

The first book I talked about was ‘Digital by Design: Crafting Technology for Products and Environments’ by Conny Freyer, Eva Rucki and Sebastien Noel. The reason I bought this in is because it was one of the first books I owned relating to this practice and has a great many inspiring projects over a range of mediums and topics. The inspiration this book has given me is unquestionable. I feel like everyone in this field of work and further should own this book. It has the ability to open up to many different ways of thinking and executing those thoughts. 

The second book I bought in is one I am currently halfway through. It is called ‘The Creative Code’ by Marcus Du Sautoy. The main argument this book poses is can computers be creative? Being written by Marcus Du Sautoy who himself is a mathematician, comes from a unique perspective. According to him you have to be creative to be a mathematician, computers are built to solve problems a lot like mathematics. So if a computer can be creative would it put him out of a job? Would his whole life’s work never be able to match the power of this creative computer? It also poses a lot of questions around the idea of what creativity in itself is and how we can tell if something is creative. All the questions that the book is building to will probably not be answered any time soon or may never be answered. 

Before the session we had to read an article called ‘A Fish Can’t Judge the Water’ by Femke Snelting. I was initially engaged in this writing with the comparison of a wooden spoon and technology. Both are seen as such sperate entities but are both used to help us perceive and change the world around us. Using these tools to adapt better with our environment. Technology is becoming ever more engrained in our life’s and becoming even more ubiquitous than the wooden spoon. One question with technology though is it taking us too far away from the real world. Separating us even more from our experiences and senses. Have we lost our natural instinct? Do we feel inadequate to technology? Have we lost touch with ourselves? Never living in the moment. Through technology we simplify the world into neat packages. But we need to push out knowledge forward and understand technology so we can use it right. 

With all this being said I would like to describe a little bit about some areas of interest I would like to break down and delve into in my future research and practice. I am interested in using computational art to reflect on the biophilic effect. Also called BET, it suggests that humans possess an innate tendency to seek connections with nature and other forms of life. When thinking about the effect nature and interaction has on you it is hard to condemn its importance in our lives. But as humans we are in a dualism with nature, we believe ourselves to be part of it but also separated from it. I am interested in finding out how computational art and technology can be used to reflect on these ideas maybe taking on the role of nature in different forms and seeing how they impact on our physical lives and our own mentality. 
