---
layout: post
title: CONCEPTIONS OF HUMANNESS IN AI
---

The text I will be talking about in this post if ‘Figuring the Human in AI and Robotics’ by Lucy Suchman. Here Suchman reflects
on how conceptions of humanness are mirrored onto and into AI and robotics. What gives these technologies a humanlike touch? 
It is how we reflect ourselves onto them. Their systems are built to respond in certain ways to our emotions and words. Even 
understanding this we can still feel like there si something deeper in this connection. 

Their obviously needs to be some level of human like reflection in the computer otherwise no one without extensive knowledge 
could understand it. But I don’t believe that AI and robots should be shrouded in a human figure because it builds 
misconception of what they are and their core capabilities. When we visualise them like this, people with little knowledge and 
understanding of how they work start to see them in a way which they are not. If they are viewed like this then we undermine 
their capabilities, not being close to human consciousness and neglecting their amazing capabilities as computers. AI has 
progressed an amazing amount and it can be used in such incredible ways to help solve very important issues we face as humans 
today like climate change pollution and conservation. 

To counter my argument, I have heard about the impact AI systems can have on elderly people with diseases like dementia. 
Using systems that resemble human or animal forms can be very beneficial to their mental state.

Suchman mentions three elements necessary for humanness in contemporary AI projects which are: embodiment, emotion and 
sociality. AI is far from understanding any of these elements, and it may never. 

An interesting thought occurred to me while reading this text which was, how can we judge what makes something conscious 
without even having clear understanding of our own consciousness. 

On great thing that these thoughts about AI is that it gets us to reflect on our own humanness and will in turn help us 
understand ourselves more as we delve deeper into understanding these systems of a different kind of intelligence. We need to 
conceptualise ourselves on completely different grounds, through this there will be real progression into the future of AI and 
ourselves. But maybe “giving it a nature” is important to our communication with it, what needs to be remembered is our 
differences through this though and not to get lost in giving human and animal consciousness to these systems.
